---
layout: post
title: Will the Robot be the Death of the Author?
date:   2018-10-10 20:56:20 +0300
description: # Add post description (optional)
img: # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Blog]
author: # Add name author (optional)
---
  French literary scholar and philosopher Roland Barthes wrote over half a century ago that ["The removal of the Author is not merely an historical fact or an act of writing; it utterly transforms the modern text."](http://artsites.ucsc.edu/faculty/Gustafson/FILM%20162.W10/readings/barthes.death.pdf) Barthes is speaking of a metaphorical "death" of the author, a world in which we view texts simply as they are written and in no connection to the persona that has created them.
  In this brave new world we now see another kind of author, the bot. Bots come in all shapes and sizes. They are used to mine and analyze data, [share information on natural disasters](https://twitter.com/earthquakesLA?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor), find any and every needed google search. They are algorithms that are specifically created to perform certain mechanical tasks, but now they are becoming more human than ever. They can be programed to write articles, share propaganda, or [write poetry](https://twitter.com/magicrealismbot). These bots are semi autonomous, meaning that they run according to the rules of code that are directly written by a person, and yet they behave in part due to machine learning abilities built in to their processing. So who really owns what a bot writes? And who is responsible? Can a bot be an artist?
  It has been long debated what true "art" is, and where "true meaning" lies. It often feels like grasping at straws, but authorship and audience are critical when thinking of the culpability of machines. The bot has truly separated the text from the author acting as a kind of messenger. The bot does not fulfill personhood but it is a creator. They have shown us that machines can create beauty. They may simply be taking from separate human made inputs, but what is creation if not the rearrangement of others thoughts? This questions will only become more dire as machine learning becomes more advanced with the improvement of artificial intelligence exponentially progressing. Programmers must code their bots with caution, because they are still responsible for what their creations create. Taking machine learning to the creative field is inevitable and important. It shows us the power that science can have in relation to art, and how technology changes not only the ways in which we consume media, but also how we create it. Maybe one day a bot will win the [Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay](https://video.arstechnica.com/watch/sunspring-sci-fi-short-film). Who knows? 
  
