---
layout: post
title:  No Digital Day
date:   2018-09-29 15:06:20 +0300
description: # Add post description (optional)
img: IMG_1177.jpg # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Blog]
author: # Add name author (optional)
---

I have not known life without a screen for my entire existence on this planet. I have witnessed screens and they’re consequential functions permeate practically every part of my society, and of my own personal life. I grew up with the twenty four hour news cycle, the invention of the smartphone, youtube, social media, streamable music and television. I was taught cursive, and then typing. In many ways these new technologies are miraculous, bringing together people, information, and creativity in ways that have never been possible in the history of human civilization. On the other hand, it has had profound implications on how we think of the world, each other, and our identity in ways that we cannot yet fully understand. It is easy to convince ourselves that it has always been this way, especially for myself and my peers who have never known of a life before the advent of internet. 
	
Many facets of my daily life rely on the ease and assistance of my personal devices. My education is dependent on my access to the internet for things like research, readings, writing (like this very essay), even registering for classes. I use them to reach out to loved ones, to inform myself, to find directions, access my bank account. For these reasons disconnecting from these devices can feel like losing an arm. They have become an integral part of my obligations, habits, and my personal safety. This accessibility, however, has not all been positive. We are bombarded with advertisements, sensational news, and outlets like Instagram and Facebook keep us constantly connected to the thoughts and photos of followers and friends. Our identities are curated through these platforms in a way that compares us to friends, acquaintances, and strangers which has caused me some serious anxiety when it comes to body image and creative expression. 
	
For these reasons, I was both apprehensive and enthusiastic to leave it all behind for a full day. I have gone without technology before while camping, but never had I really dedicated myself to removing my digital world from my daily routine. Thankfully as an English major most of the work I am required to do only involves printed material, so the day did not require much preparation. When I woke up on Saturday, September 22, my first thought was to check my phone. I begin each day by shutting off my alarm clock, opening my phone, and scrolling. I’m sure that you do the same. For me, this usually causes instant anxiety whether I am aware of it or not. It feels like a task that I must complete. With this burden out of reach I was forced to sit with my thoughts post slumber, and asses how I was feeling separate from how the world was feeling. I decided to go outside and read for the day, and so I left the house with only my book and my Charlie card. I instantly noticed how the world is so full of sound without headphones. Our digital bubbles cause barriers not only online, but they also cause such a noticeable separation from the world around us. People avoid contact by staring at their screens, block out others with music, and I would be a hypocrite if I said that I do not do the same. Without this crutch, however, this phenomenon became starkly apparent. 
	
I took the orange line to Forest Hills, and strolled through the Arnold Arboretum. I walked through the trees and gardens, it was a lovely Autumn day. I layed in the grass reading Jane Eyre, a story that takes place in a time before phones, the internet, electricity. In that moment I realized that I was truly alone, unable to reach or be reached by others. It is this solitude that is so calming, and is impossible to obtain while carrying a mobile device in your back pocket during every hour of the day. That evening my roommates were very accomodating. Instead of our usual netflix session we simply made dinner and colored together with a few friends. The day felt longer than it usually does. With less hours spent scrolling through Instagram, the hours went by slowly instead of seeming to whiz by. 

I’m not going to say that every part of this day was easy. At times I needed to check my maps, or I wanted to take a picture, or I wanted to call a friend. When an inkling of boredom crept through my first reaction was always to reach for a device. Technology often distracts us from the [usefulness and even beauty of boredom](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LKPwKFigF8U&t=371s). It forces one to think about their own relationship with their surroundings, and it brings more focus to the self and those around us. Without this slight annoyance perhaps creation and innovation would not be inspired. And yet technology is also an imperative tool in this era for creative production. 
	
The most important thing I took away from that day is the idea of balance. Yes, my digital world is inextricably connected to my life, and it probably will always be that way. But I do not need to be constantly connected. I can take time to put it away. I can walk to class without music, begin the day with a deep breath instead of an instant scroll. As artist, activist, and author Marlee Grace advocates, in times when we are lost in our screens, take awareness of your spine, take a breath, and remember that the digital world is not separate from the physical one, and neither are you.

