---
Layout: post
Title: Mimene
Date: 2018-10-20 15:06:20 +0300
Description: # Add post discription (optional)
Img: fun-dog.jpg # Add image post (optional)
Tags: [Blog]
Author: # Add name of author (optional)
---
## Mimene

It’s easy to forget that our most personal thoughts, feelings, opinions, and experiences are the manifestation of biological processes within the brain. It is thought that these processes are motivated by one fundamental goal: live long enough so that we can procreate and keep our genetic code alive. We know that this code governs a great deal of our bodily functions, and yet it remains quite elusive, an enigma that we haven’t entirely cracked. [Evolutionary Biologist Richard Dawkins](http://nautil.us/issue/5/fame/the-meme-as-meme) noticed this connection, and proposed that ideas themselves act like genes, with recessive and dominant qualities, because they themselves fundamentally run on genetics. “Meme Theory” was born. A Meme being a “unit of culture” that is transmitted between brains, the spread of ideas that feeds off of attention, significance, and will fade away without it. 
	
  The Internet in a sense is much like a distorted, mutated form of the human brain. A massive network through which different modules connect, disconnect, strengthen, grow, and disappear. The “internet meme” relies on this phenomenon. Every piece of data on the internet is striving for attention in a way in order to survive. The “internet meme” is an ideal metaphor for the networking of the mind. Whatever is pertinent to our survival, physically or socially, we keep, and whatever is not gets pruned away. The meme functions in this way as well. The network rewards what grabs attention, what can be easily manipulated, transformed, and evolved in order to survive, much like physical genes. Networks can be used to explain and visualize tons of universal processes from the virality of disease and news stories to the processes of computers and the human brain. Perhaps we should put more care and consideration into the study of silly internet memes, because they may help to illuminate the networks that permeate our universe, and the ways in which ideas and biology are connected. 
