---
layout: post
title: Gone Home
date:   2018-11-29 20:56:20 +0300
description: # Add post description (optional)
img:  # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Blog]
author: # Add name author (optional)
---

   Games and the act of play are naturally engrained into the human psyche. We are meant to play, and we have been doing so for thousands of years. Only in the last few decades, however, have games entered the digital sphere, rapidly growing and expanding in tandem with the advancement of techonology in the home. Videogames are a wildy popular cultural phenomenon. Competetive markets supply all different kinds of home consoles and games, and computer gaming through streaming or services like Steam have ubiquitized gaming in our lives. Many indie games are pioneering the path toward a different way of thinking about games and game culture, separate from the massive hoards of first person shooting platforms and other predictable models. 
  
   I recently completed the videogame [Gone Home](https://gonehome.game/), created by the Fullbright Company. The game's mechanics are profoundly different than what most would consider a true videogame. It is set in the year 1995 and the player occupies the role of a young woman returning home after living away. She finds that her entire family has gone missing, and through limited interaction the player must piece together what has happened by finding certain artifacts, letters and notes scattered throughout the house. Gone Home directly challenges what it means to be a videogame. In many ways, this game occupies a space somewhere between game and literature. Its main objective is rooted in story, and much of the entertainment factor comes from the player's ability to piece this story together. 
    For this reason one may question why they had made this story into a game at all. But it is the interactivity that each player is given, and the different stories that they each uncover through their divergent paths, that makes the story captivating, unique, and important for the progress of gaming as a whole. So is it interactive literature? Or a story driven video game? I'm not sure this distinction really matters all too much. The more creators break down walls of genre and create content that is innovative and experimental, consumers get more interesting products. When sticking to the status quo we get much of the same thing, the same games, the same books, the same movies. When something like Gone Home comes along, it should be celebrated as a beacon of creative endeavor separate from the rest. Trying to place it in a box simply detracts from a much more fruitful conversation regarding what the game is about, what does it mean for the production of new games, new literature etc. It is much like [17776](https://www.sbnation.com/a/17776-football), breaking the rules of what it means to be literature, digital literature, game, video, or somewhere inbetween all that. Indie games such as Gone Home challenge players to think of what a game really is and what it can be for players of all backgrounds and experience. 
