---
layout: post
title: Speak
date: 2018-11-23 14:47:20 +0300
description:  # Add post description (optional)
img:  # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Blog]
author: # Add name author (optional)
---

  We are all made up of voices. Voices of the past, voices of others near or far, construct one's own voice. Louisa Hall's Novel Speak is rooted in this knowledge. The novel is told through a series of characters through time and space, spanning from a young girl traversing the Atlantic towards the New World in the 17th century to an artificially intelligent doll in the middle of the desert anticipating "death" in the near future. Hall explores how all these voices are interconnected and build upon each other to create the web of history. Speak examines the relationship between voice and personhood, who is allowed to speak and who is not and the ways in which voice is connected to a sense of identity, for human and robot characters alike. Much of the novel is comprised of artifacts of monologues, letters, journals, court ordered documents of conversations, memoirs. In this way Hall investigates voice in the mediated sense, who one's voice is directed towards, who shares this voice willingly or unwillingly. All of the characters share their voice in the written form, further complicating what speech really means. Writing is clearly a form of speech and yet is quite distinct from the written word.
  
  Taking this angle, Hall shares with us the possibility of super intelligent AI, and how we humans would be able to tell if it is truly capable of something near a human consciousness. 
  
  "Gaby: So you're not really a person, you're a collection of voices.
   MARY3: Yes. But couldn't you say that's always the case?"
   
What is a truly original thought? From our birth we are filled with the voices of others, our language and thought patterns. We are incredibly influenced by the enviornment that we inhabit. So what really is the difference between our reality and a computer through which we mediate the voices of thousands? Speak invites us to interrogate these problems, and to imagine a future in which we live amongst intelligent computers. It is a book that creates a realistic future in which we will need to reexamine what it means to be human, organic or digital. 
