---
layout: post
title: Programing, Poetry, and the Future
date: 2018-11-20 14:47:20 +0300
description:  # Add post description (optional)
img: # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Blog]
author: # Add name author (optional)
---

  Several weeks ago, computational poet, programmer, and author [Nick Montfort](https://nickm.com/) contributed to Northeastern's speaker series event entitled "Us vs Them: Taming the Biology of Otherness." Montfort's lecture began at the top of Renaissance Park overlooking the Boston city skyline as the sun set dramatically in the west, flashing bright oranges and pinks soon morphing to black. Students slowly trickled in, filling the room with English majors, Computer Science connoisseurs, writers, readers, gamers, professors. This event, and Montfort's work, stands out because of this fusion of fields. He began his lecture with a focus toward the future, stressing that the future cannot be predicted, instead it is imagined, created, and designed. We have the power to create the future and change the path of tomorrow. This bit was quite inspiring. He then went on to discuss his main body of work tying into his thesis of "How Poetry and Computing Factor into Our Future." A beautiful title, one that holds much promise for the trajectory of growth for the humanities into the digital age and the relevance of the symbiotic relationship between computing and language. Unfortunately as the talk went on, it became clear to us audience members that Montfort was a bit more concerned with the mechanics of the code involved and not with the intricacies of the selected words, or the beauty of the output. It was unclear to me how this talk tied into the speaker series larger general theme as well. Nick Montfort's work is compelling, and unique in many ways. I agree when he says that computational poetry has the potential to be an essential touchstone for the expansion and advancement of the humanities into the future. However his talk did not really focus on how this would happen, or how we could help to design, imagine, and create. Instead it was a bit of a show, with Montfort standing, emphatically reading his work aloud for just a tad bit too long, snappily answering students questions ; coming off as somewhat defensive for no reason. Montfort: much like a sheep in a costume, a computational programer masquerading as an erudite english expert. All things considered, I very much enjoyed his propositions of a future envisaged and made, and his work I find engaging not only for its mechanical code but also for the strange beauty of machine made words, phrases. His disposition was less than ideal, but his work thought provoking, inspiring, and paramount. 
