---
layout: post
title: Time Well Spent
date: 2018-10-27 12:37:20 +0300
description:  # Add post description (optional)
img:  # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Blog]
author: # Add name author (optional)
---

  Throughout my youth I have been taught that productivity is the equivalent of accomplishment. Those that do the most, piano recital, sports practice, valedictorian, volunteering, receive the prized gold star of approval from their community. This schema for identifying achievers in the world has translated into the "adult" working world as well. Our capatilist society loves quantifying anything and everything. Likes, matches, followers, connections, are all meant to be numerical markers of our social standing, our worth, or lack there of. The meaning of work has changed drastically since the industrial revolution. Instead of clocking in, working several hours, and clocking out, our work in the information age has become much more difficult to quantify using time. Now we carry our work-machines wherever we go. We are expected to work at every convenient moment and failing to do so is failing to maximize one's potential as a worker. Work has seeped into nearly every moment of life, the phenomenon being dubbed "hyper employment." Social, personal, and work life have become inseparable in a lot of ways. 
  Our software is built to be addictive, so much so that it often feels like an extension of the self in every aspect of our lives. As entrepeneur Tristan Harris warns, "the most-successful sites and apps hook us by tapping into deep-seated human needs." They are designed to manipulate our behavoiral centers so that we feel unwilling dependent. As the old adage goes, "If you're not paying for something, you're not the customer; you're the product being sold." This technology thrives on our "innate craving for social approval." Quantification of our output has morphed into a behemouth of social anxiety. Productivity is the new drug. And it's slowly breaking us down. With a focus on productivity, or sheer quantity of output, there is a lack of emphasis on creativity, collaboration, and taking the time to think of contemporary ideas. Innovation takes time, care, and attention and yet our software fixates on incessant and prolific production whilst distracting us simultaneously. This technology is made to make us feel weak, that there is something somehow wrong with us, rather than shifting out attention to the manipulative applications themselves. The best way to revolt against this productivity epidemic is to take time. Time for self care, for reflection, for arts and crafts, to show that quality output is not made when we are constantly forcing "productivity," but when we take a step back from our technology and focus on ourselves and one another. 
